Assignment 1 - Trainspotting
Jesper Josefsson, Anmar Khazal 
2011-01-29

#################

-- CRITICAL SECTIONS OF THE MAP AND SEMAPHORES

On an abstract level critical sections are defined as the track between a station and a switch or between two switches.
Two trains are not allowed to use the same critical section at a given time, 
nor to manipulate switches connected to those sections at the same time.
To ensure mutual exclusion each critical section or state, as we will call them hence, is represented by a binary semaphore. 

-- SENSORS AND MAXIMUM SPEED

The sensors are placed before and after the entry and exit points of states. 
An entry point can be e.g. a switch or just a piece of track near an intersection. Further sensors are placed close to the stations to trigger the final stop at the station. 
When a train reaches a sensor it can release its previous state. Therefore, to ensure good train flow the sensors need to be placed as close as possible to the entry and exit points. However, trains have a stopping distance that has to taken into consideration when placing the sensors, i.e. they have to be placed further away from the point. The current placement is a compromise between good train flow and high maximum speed. 
The maximum speed is 22. Speeds over that will cause derailment at switches, or blocked switches because of trains stopping over them or crasches at stations.

-- CRITICAL SECTIONS OF CODE

On a code level a critical section is defined as the section where, for a given state, a train starts, flips switches and waits for the next sensor. The tasks to be performed in the critical section vary based on what state the train is in. 

-- STATES

The states are defined as follows:
0 - the topmost track
1 - the other track of the top station
2 - the track between the first two switches
3 and 4 - the double tracks in the middle of the system, 3 being the topmost
5 - the track between the double track and the lower station
6 - the upper track of the lower station
7 - the lower track of the lower station

-- TESTING

Tests have been made with a one slow and one fast train (5 and 22), and two fast trains (22,22) and two slow trains (2,2). Tests ran 5 minutes each.
Longer tests would have been more prudent.

-- DISCUSSION

The solution uses 9 semaphores. All of the double tracks (both stations and the middle section) can be implemented using only one semaphore each. For example, a train that acquires the semaphore goes left and a train that fails to acquire it goes right.
We use a semaphore for each track for reasons of clarity.


